EXTRACT(1L)							   EXTRACT(1L)



NAME
       extract - Extract Picospan responses

SYNOPSIS
       extract [options] [conferences] [topics] [responses ...]

DESCRIPTION
       extract extracts Picospan responses from a conference.  It's useful for
       quickly reading responses from a	 different  conference	than  the  one
       you're  in, quoting other responses in a new response you're composing,
       creating files for downloading, searching  for  responses  by  date  or
       user,  and  easily  reading  hidden  responses.	It can also be used to
       search topics for keywords in the response text.

       extract does essentially the same thing	as  the	 Picospan  see,	 find,
       browse,	check,	and  fixseen  commands,	 but  more  flexibly.  You can
       extract any subset of responses.	 You can restrict the responses	 to  a
       specific	 user  and/or  a  specific period of time.  You can extract or
       search multiple conferences at once.  The output can go to your screen,
       to  a  file,  or	 directly into your editor buffer.  Since extract is a
       UNIX command, it	 can  be  run  from  almost  anywhere,	including  the
       response	 editor	 and mail.  If you know the topic and response numbers
       you want, you can extract from any conference, even  if	you  are  cur-
       rently reading another conference.

       You must be a member to extract responses from a private conference.

       conferences is one or more conference names, separated by commas.  If a
       name begins with an at sign ('@'),  the	rest  of  the  name  is	 taken
       instead	to be the name of a file containing a list of whitespace-sepa-
       rated conference names.	If no  file  is	 given	(a  plain  '@'),  your
       .cflist	is  used.   If the file name is '-', the list is read from the
       standard input.

       If the conference name itself is '+' then all public  conferences,  and
       all private conferences of which you are a member, are extracted.

       topics  and  responses  are individual numbers, inclusive ranges of the
       form

	    start-end

       or multiple numbers and/or ranges separated by commas.  A  dollar  sign
       ('$') can be used to specify the last topic in a conference or the last
       response in a topic.

       A missing start in a range implies topic 1 or response 0; a missing end
       implies	the last topic or response.  Thus, '-' implies the entire con-
       ference or topic.

       So

	    extract words 565

       would extract the entire topic 565 in words,

	    extract words 565 162

       would extract response 162,

       and

	    extract words 565 162,170-

       would extract response 162 and responses 170 through the end.

       You can separate things with periods instead of spaces:

	    extract news.640.4

       This can be useful when cutting-and-pasting a reference which used that
       format.

       If  you're  running extract from Picospan's OK prompt, you can omit the
       conferences argument and extract will extract from the current  confer-
       ence.   If  you're in the process of reading a topic with Picospan, you
       can omit the topics argument as well.

       Output normally goes to your screen, but you can also direct  it	 to  a
       file instead:

	    extract news 630 4 > filename

       This  file  could  then be downloaded, incorporated into mail, etc.  If
       you are running extract from a Picospan prompt  and  you	 redirect  the
       output, you must precede the command with an exclamation point:

	    !extract news 630 4 > filename

       From  red,  the	response  editor, there is a command for capturing the
       output of extract and inserting it directly into	 the  response	you're
       creating:

	    :>extract news 640 4

       will  put  the  response into your message.  A double >> will prepend a
       '>' at the beginning of each line:

	    :>>extract news 640 4

       This is nice because it's makes it clear that  you're  quoting  another
       response.

       With  no	 arguments,  extract  puts  up a full-screen menu.  Select the
       extraction options by moving the cursor with the arrow keys and filling
       in the fields you want.	You must have a cursor-addressable terminal to
       use this mode of extract.

OPTIONS
       -a     With multiple -f's (see below), require all strings for a	 match
	      (the  default is "any", i.e. only matching one of the strings is
	      required to constitute a match).	Without -w  (see  below),  the
	      strings  must  all be on the same line; with -w, within the same
	      response.	 Order is irrelevant.

       -b when
	      Limit responses to those dated before the	 specified  time  (see
	      below).

       -B file
	      Limit responses to those dated before the specified file's modi-
	      fication time.

       -c     For each conference, report only the number of topics which have
	      matching	responses.   Nothing is output for conferences with no
	      matching responses.

       -C     For each topic, report only the number  of  matching  responses.
	      Nothing is output for topics with no matching responses.

       -d user
	      Don't  show  responses  made by specific userids.	 Multiple -d's
	      are allowed.  If the name begins with @, the rest of the name is
	      taken  to be the name of a file containing white-space-separated
	      userids.	There may no more than 64 userids total.

       -e     With -f, require an exact (case-sensitive) match.

       -E     Exclude private conferences (same as -j).

       -f string
	      Find responses with the given string.  Multiple -f's, up to  32,
	      may be given; see also -a.  The default is to show only response
	      headers and the lines containing the string; if -w is given, the
	      whole response is shown.	The matching is case-insensitive, i.e.
	      upper case letters match lower case letters, unless -e  is  also
	      specified.  See below for a discussion of string arguments.

       -F     Show frozen topics only.

       -g     With  -p,	 or  -P,  include forgotten topics.  The default is to
	      omit forgotten topics if -p or -P is given.

       -G     Show forgotten topics only.  Used with -p or -P; if  neither  is
	      specified, -P is implied.

       -h     Show  the	 text of hidden responses.  The default is to omit the
	      text of hidden responses, unless a single response is  specified
	      on the command line.

       -H     Show hidden responses only.

       -i     Produce  only  an	 inventory  of	the  responses selected.  This
	      includes the numbers of topics, responses, lines, words,	bytes,
	      and users.

	      If -t is also given, limit statistics to topics only.

       -j     Public conferences only.

       -J     Private conferences only.

       -K uid For use with Engaged.

       -l     Show only the last matching response in each topic.

       -L     Show linked topics only.

       -m     Send  the	 output	 through  a pager.  The pager is created using
	      environment  variables  SHELL  (default  "/bin/sh")  and	 PAGER
	      (default "more").

       -M     Show only topics which are not linked.

       -n     Show  new	 responses.   Used with -p or -P; if neither is speci-
	      fied, -P is assumed if any of -cCiotTU  are  present,  otherwise
	      -p.

       -N     Show  new	 responses  since yours, i.e., new responses in topics
	      where yours is the first new response and a response by  someone
	      else  follows.   Used with -p or -P; if neither is specified, -P
	      is assumed if any of -cCiotTU are present, otherwise -p.

       -o     Show response headers only; omit text.

       -O     Show text only; omit headers

       -p     Read parti file (heeding forgotten topics), and update responses
	      seen.  For this to work properly, you must not simultaneously be
	      reading the conference with Picospan.  The safest thing to do is
	      to  use  Picospan's  leave command before using -p or one of the
	      other options which imply -p.

       -P     Read parti file (heeding forgotten topics), but don't update.

       -r     Include  retired	topics	if  an	entire	conference  is	 being
	      extracted.   The default is to omit retired topics.  If a single
	      topic  is	 being	extracted,  however,  its  retired  status  is
	      ignored.

       -q     Report both user login names and numeric userids in headers.

       -R     Show retired topics only.

       -s when
	      Limit  responses	to  those  dated since the specified time (see
	      below).  When extracting	from  an  entire  conference,  -s  can
	      greatly  speed  up  things  since	 extract  doesn't need to look
	      through topics which have not  been  modified  since  the	 given
	      time.

       -S file
	      Limit  responses to those dated since the specified file's modi-
	      fication time.

       -t     Show topic titles only.  Other options are  still	 processed  if
	      given, so specifying

	      -t -s -2

	      for  example  will  show	the  titles  of	 topics which have had
	      responses in the last two days.

	      If the topic is forgotten, frozen, linked, and/or	 retired,  the
	      letters  G, F, L and/or R respectively will be shown to the left
	      of the topic title.

	      With -i, limit statistics to topics only.

       -T title
	      Like -t, but titles are further restricted to  those  containing
	      the  given string.  Matches are case-insensitive.	 See below for
	      a discussion of string arguments.

       -u user
	      Limit responses to specific userids.  Multiple -u's are allowed.
	      If  the  name begins with @, the rest of the name is taken to be
	      the name of a  file  containing  white-space-separated  userids.
	      There may no more than 64 userids.

       -U     Show only a list of the userids of those who posted the selected
	      responses, along with a count of responses for each name.

       -v     Produce verbatim Picospan data.

       -w     With -f, show the whole response when a match  is	 found.	  With
	      -a, look for matches across the entire response.

       -W     With  -f, require whole-word matches, where a "word" is a string
	      of alphanumerics.	 For example, "can" would not  match  "cannon"
	      with -W.

       -x     Omit scribbled responses.

       -X     Show scribbled responses only.  With -X, -sSbB refer to scribble
	      dates rather than response dates, and -uU	 refer	to  scribblers
	      rather than posters.

       If  a string argument contains spaces, tabs, or special characters such
       as asterisk or question mark,  enclose  the  entire  string  in	single
       quotes.	To get a single quote into the string, precede it with a back-
       slash.  To get a backslash into the string,  precede  it	 with  another
       backslash.

       -y     Show  your  last	responses,  i.e.  responses of yours which are
	      still new to you.	 Used with -p or -P; if neither is  specified,
	      -P is assumed.

       -z     Rather  than displaying responses, mark topics as read up to and
	      including the last response matched in each  topic.   Note  that
	      this  can	 be  used not only to catch up to the present, but can
	      also be used to "catch up" to some point in the past  (with  -b,
	      for example).  Implies -p.

       -Z     Don't show frozen topics.

       The when argument to -b and -s is in one of the following forms:

	    Form	    Meaning			   Example

	    1. mm/dd/yy	    Date			   12/25/89
	    2. mm/dd	    Date this year		   4/26
	    3. -d or d	    Days prior to now		   -3
	    4. hh:mm	    Time today			   14:30
	    5. hh:mm:sc	    Time today			   14:32:47
	    6. -hh:mm	    Hours & minutes prior to now   -2:30
	    7. -hh:mm:ss    ... and seconds prior to now   -2:30:10

	    8. (UNIX style)	       Sun Jan 17 22:55:23 PST 1993

       Forms 1 and 2 imply midnight (00:00 AM) on that date.  Form 3 refers to
       24-hour periods, so if it is 9:00 now, -2 refers to 9:00 two days  ago.

       If  form 4 or 5 is used and the time given would be in the future, that
       time yesterday is used instead, e.g. if it is 1:00 now and an  argument
       of 23:00 is specified, 23:00 yesterday is implied.

       Forms  1,  2, and 3 may be combined with form 4 or 5 by using an inter-
       vening '@' character, e.g.

	    12/25/89@14:32:47
	    -3@14:30

       If form 8 is used, weekday and time zone are ignored.   Month  and  day
       must  be	 present;  hour, minute, second default to 0; year defaults to
       current year.  Form 8 must typically be enclosed	 in  quotes  since  it
       contains spaces.

       Options	may  be	 combined freely.  Most options serve to further limit
       the responses given by the conference and topic	and/or	response  num-
       bers;  when  multiple  options  are used, only the items which meet the
       criteria of all the arguments are extracted.

EXAMPLES
       Extract topic 500 in the News conference:

	    extract news 500

       Extract response 12 only:

	    extract news 500 12

       Extract responses 100, 102, and 200 through the end:

	    extract news 500 100,102,200-

       Extract all of topics 500 and 504:

	    extract news 500,504

       Extract response 0 from all of topics 900 on:

	    extract news 900- 0

       Extract all responses from the News conference  made  in	 the  last  48
       hours:

	    extract -s -2 news

       Extract all responses by user myrtle in News since Christmas:

	    extract -u myrtle -s 12/25 news

       Extract all responses by user myrtle in News and Words since the Fourth
       of July:

	    extract -u myrtle -s 7/4 news,words

       Extract all lines from News which mention Iraq:

	    extract -f iraq news

       Extract lines in News which mentioned Iraq in the last 30 days:

	    extract -f iraq -s -30 news

       Extract lines in News where myrtle referred to aspirin in  the  past  7
       days:

	    extract -u myrtle -s -7 -f aspirin news

       Extract lines in News where myrtle referred to Baby Doe:

	    extract -u myrtle -f "baby doe" news

       Extract	just  the titles of the topics in News which mentioned Iraq in
       one of their responses in the last 30 days:

	    extract -t -f iraq -s -30 news

       Extract the titles of the topics in News

	    extract -t news

       Extract the titles of the topics	 in  News  which  contain  the	string
       "well" in the title:

	    extract -T well news

       Extract all responses in News topic 500 made in the year 1991

	    extract -s 1/1/91 -b 1/1/92 news 500

       Locate  the  response  made  somewhere in News today or yesterday where
       myrtle mentioned a $3 bill:

	    extract -f "$3" -u myrtle -s -2 news

       The Loma Prieta quake occurred at 5:04 PM on October  17,  1989.	  Find
       the  responses  in the Sports conference which mentioned the quake that
       evening:

	    extract -f quake -s 10/17/89@17:04 -b 10/18 sports

       Show in their entirety responses in News which mentioned 'quake' in the
       last two days:

	    extract -wf quake -s -2 news

       Find  responses	in  the News conference than mention both "ehrlichman"
       and "haldeman":

	    extract -aw -f ehrlichman -f haldeman news

       Extract the titles of all the topics in News, including retired topics:

	    extract -tr news

       Extract the titles of only the retired topics in News

	    extract -tR news

       Extract	the  titles  of topics in News which have had responses in the
       past week:

	    extract -s -7 -t news

       Extract the titles of topics in News which myrtle has posted in in  the
       past week:

	    extract -s -7 -t -u myrtle news

       Show a list of userids of those who have posted in News topic 777:

	    extract -U news 777

       Show  a list of userids of those who have posted in News in the past 24
       hours:

	    extract -U -s -1 news

       Show a summary of activity in News in the past three hours:

	    extract -i -s -3:00 news

       Show a summary of activity in News and Words in the past week:

	    extract -i -s -7 news,words

       Show which responses were scribbled in news in the past 2 days:

	    extract -X -s -2 news

       Extract all new responses from all the conferences on your .cflist, and
       mark the responses seen:

	    extract @ -n

       Check which conferences on your .cflist have new responses:

	    extract @ -cn

       List the topics in the news conference which have new responses:

	    extract -Cn news

       Catch up (fixseen) in all the conferences on your .cflist:

	    extract @ -zn

       Catch up to 7 days ago in the news conference:

	    extract -zb -7 news

       From the Respond prompt, show hidden response 247:

	    Respond: extract 247

       From the Respond prompt, show puffball's last response in that topic:

	    Respond: extract -lu puffball

       From  the  OK  prompt,  list the topics in the conference that have had
       responses in the last 3 days:

	    OK: extract -s -3 -t


SEE ALSO
       pmat(1L).

AUTHOR
       Bryan Higgins (bryan).



								   EXTRACT(1L)
